ETHIOPIAN GENERAL SECONDARY EDUCATION CERTIFICATE CIVICS AND ETHICAL EDUCATION EXAMINATINION
BOOKLET CODE: 035                                                                                                  
SUBJECT CODE: 07
1.	The major purpose of constitution in democratic political system is to 
A.	Embed the right and duties of the governed by giving unlimited  powers to the governors
B.	Embed the right and duties of the people by limiting the powers of officials
C.	Not limiting the rights and duties of both the citizen and officials 
D.	Embed the right but not the duties of the people by limiting the powers of officials 
answer: B 
2.	The 1995 FDRE constitution is different from its predecessors in that it  
A.	Is centrally and undemocratically introduced 
B.	Is written 
C.	Is socialist ideology oriented 
D.	Centrally deals with fundamentals humans and democratic right
answer: D
3.	Which of the following cannot be taken as the progressive aspect of the 1955 revised constitution of Ethiopia as compared to the 1931 Ethiopian constitution?
A.	It include some provisions of freedom of speech and freedom expression
B.	Recognizing Eritrea 
C.	It include some provision on the formation of political parties 
D.	Centralization of key powers at the hands of the emperor
answer: C
4.	Who should pay tax?
A.	Unemployed groups
B.	Youngsters and minors 
C.	Citizens who have income 
D.	Needy people 
answer: C
5.	The concept of citizenship refers to 
A.	Being a members of a given state 
B.	Being a member of a given community 
C.	Being loyal to a given political party
D.	Being member of a certain organization. 
answer: D
6.	Naturalization as a process of acquiring citizenship is by 
A.	Bloodline of the individual.
B.	Appling as per the immigration law of the country
C.	Age of the person 
D.	Birth place of the individual.
answer: A
7.	Deforestation and drought are
A.	Always human made 
B.	Always natural 
C.	Partly natural and partly human made 
D.	Not results of change in the natural environment
answer: C
8.	The habit of proper understanding of your own qualities interests, ambition, capability and the like is termed as 
A.	Self-knowledge
B.	Self-reliance 
C.	Capital
D.	Self interest
answer: B
9.	Which of the following could be taken as the adverse effect of the spirit of dependency?
A.	It promote a good work habit and self-confidence 
B.	It represses self-initiative and self-reliance 
C.	It simulate toward making rational decision
D.	It fosters development  and self-reliance
answer: B
10.	Deciding  to be independent implies 
A.	Deciding to be incapable to look after yourself
B.	Deciding to rely on other for the rest of your life 
C.	Deciding not to be strong enough to look after others 
D.	Deciding to be self-reliant and courageous 
answer: C
11.	Voluntary organization are 
A.	Non-government created ones 
B.	Government created ones 
C.	International but not local
D.	Those organizations having mixed membership of civil society and government bodies.
answer: A
12.	Quality and relevant data is important to arrive at
A.	Those organization having mixed membership of civil society and government bodies
B.	Sound decision 
C.	Hasty generalization
D.	Illogical conclusion
answer: A
13.	Students learn from elders, their relatives, colleagues and even from their environment besides their school classes. This form of acquiring knowledge is termed as
A.	Informal learning
B.	Formal learning 
C.	Cooperative learning 
D.	Active learning
answer: A
14.	Wisdom and knowledge can be acquired through
A.	Formal learning but not informal 
B.	A combination of both formal and informal learning
C.	Informal learning but not formal
D.	Deep thinking but not self-reflection
answer: B
15.	Which of the following is not among the basic democratic rights of citizens?
A.	The right to life 
B.	The right to elect 
C.	The right to be elected
D.	The right to property
answer: A
16.	Which of the following powers is exclusively given to be the federal government of the federal democratic republic of Ethiopia?
A.	Education policy
B.	Land administration 
C.	Environment protection
D.	Foreign relation
answer: A
17.	Instrument that best regulates the relationship between the federal and regional states in Ethiopia is 
A.	Arbitrary rule
B.	Constitution 
C.	Decrease and proclamation 
D.	Presidential power
answer: C
18.	Positives discrimination of people is among the measure taken by the EPRDE government to ensure
A.	Equality
B.	Equity
C.	Equity and equality
D.	None of these
answer: C
19.	Affirmative action is a concept that implies 
A.	 treating all equally
B.	Equity and equality
C.	Positive discrimination  among the people to redress past injustice 
D.	Equity and equality 
answer: C
20.	What will prevail if a government as a responsible organ does not care for the fair distribution of social service like education, health and healthy and job opportunities among its people?
A.	Injustice 
B.	Fairness 
C.	Impartiality 
D.	Satisfaction 
answer: B